Nearly a year went by.

Lady Isabel Carlyle had spent it on the continent – that refuge for such
fugitives – now moving about from place to place with her companion, now
stationary and alone. Quite half the time – taking one absence with the
other – he had been away from her, chiefly in Paris, pursuing his own
course and his own pleasure.

How fared it with Lady Isabel? Just as it must be expected to fare, and
does fare, when a high-principled gentlewoman falls from her pedestal.
Never had she experienced a moment's calm, or peace, or happiness, since
the fatal night of quitting her home. She had taken a blind leap in a
moment of wild passion, when, instead of the garden of roses it had been
her persuader's pleasure to promise her she would fall into, but which,
in truth, she had barely glanced at, for that had not been her moving
motive, she had found herself plunged into a yawning abyss of horror,
from which there was never more any escape – never more, never more. The
very instant – the very night of her departure, she awoke to what she had
done. The guilt, whose aspect had been shunned in the prospective,
assumed at once its true frightful color, the blackness of darkness; and
a lively remorse, a never-dying anguish, took possession of her soul
forever. Oh, reader, believe me! Lady – wife – mother! Should you ever be
tempted to abandon your home, so will you awake. Whatever trials may be
the lot of your married life, though they may magnify themselves to your
crushed spirit as beyond the nature, the endurance of woman to bear,
resolve to bear them; fall down upon your knees, and pray to be enabled
to bear them – pray for patience – pray for strength to resist the demon
that would tempt you to escape; bear unto death, rather than forfeit
your fair name and your good conscience; for be assured that the
alternative, if you do rush on to it, will be found worse than death.

Poor thing – poor Lady Isabel! She had sacrificed husband, children,
reputation, home, all that makes life of value to woman. She had
forfeited her duty to God, had deliberately broken his commandments, for
the one poor miserable mistake of flying with Francis Levison. But the
instant the step was irrevocable, the instant she had left the barrier
behind, repentance set in. Even in the first days of her departure, in
the fleeting moments of abandonment, when it may be supposed she might
momentarily forget conscience, it was sharply wounding her with its
adder stings; and she knew that her whole future existence, whether
spent with that man or without him, would be a dark course of gnawing
retribution.

Nearly a year went by, save some six or eight weeks, when, one morning
in July, Lady Isabel made her appearance in the breakfast-room. They
were staying now at Grenoble.
